Hi and welcome back.
Let's look at decorators in Python.
In this video, we're going to look at simple decorators
and then we're going to move onto more complicated things.
Decorators are higher-order functions,
remember that those are functions
which take other functions as arguments,
and decorators return a function,
so this is the important thing about decorators,
you can have a higher-order function
that takes in another function
and does things, but it won't be a decorator
unless it returns a function as well.
Let's create a simple decorator.
We're gonna have a function called user has permission
and this is going to take a function as an argument,
remember it must do this,
and then it's going to do something like
if user get access level
is admin,
return func,
otherwise it's gonna raise our runtime error,
let's see,
of course we're gonna need to call this function
so let's do that, let's create a function called
my function that says return password
for admin panel is one two three four,
not a great password and then we'll say
my secure function is user has permission
of my function.
We need to create our user variable so let's do that,
user equal username, no sorry,
username is Jose one two three
and the access level is going to be admin.
Okay, so what we've done here
is we've created a user dictionary
that has two properties, username and access level.
We have a function called my function
that just returns the password for the admin panel,
not sure if this would be a function you'd have
in your programmes, but nonetheless,
this is just an example,
and finally we have this decorator, user has permission.
This takes in a function, in this case,
it's gonna take my function which returns the admin panel
and if the user's access level is equal to admin,
it's gonna return that function
and if not, it's gonna raise a runtime error.
Not the best error to be raising here,
but again this is just an example.
So, my secure function run it
and of course this is gonna return a password
so we're gonna have to print it out.
And as you can see, we get that the password
for the admin panel is one two three four.
What if the access level was something else like guest?
What do you think is going to happen?
Well, as you would imagine, the access level
was not admin so we raised a runtime error.
Ideal thing to do here would be to create your own error
like not enough access error
or user access error or something like that,
and raise that instead, but as you can see
this is a decorator, a decorator is just a function
that returns another function
and takes in one as an argument.
Normally, the way you'll see a decorator created
is a little bit different than this,
you'll see that you define a function inside a secure func
and this function is the one that is going to
check this and actually run the inner function there
and then you're always going to return secure func.
Slightly different way of doing things,
now you define a function
and that function is the one that checks the access level
and then returns whatever the result is
from running the original function, my function.
Then, this user has permission returns secure func
so when you call this what you get back is secure func,
so my secure function will now be equal
to this function here.
Secure func, when you run my secure function,
you're running this thing, if user level,
if user get access level is admin,
and then that's gonna return,
running the original function in there,
so again if we run this, we now get none
because the access level was not admin
and our function doesn't return anything
so it returns none.
If we make it admin, now this function
is going to return the result of running func
which is this.
And there we have it.
So this is the sort of normal way of running
or creating a decorator, okay?
And whenever you want to make a function sort of secure now
all you have to do is wrap it
with this decorator, user has permission
and then your function will become secure essentially,
you're now checking whether the access level is correct
before you execute the function.
There are a couple of problems
which we're gonna look at in the very next video,
well in the next few videos in fact,
which are that, for example,
you still got my function and now you have
a separate function called my secure function.
You could run my function and then anybody could
have access to the admin panel.
So there's a couple issues with this code,
we're gonna be solving them throughout the section.
So with that said, I'll see you on the next video.